deck file kong2kic docs (#6905)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/deck/index.md

---
title: decK

> subtitle: Manage {{site.konnect_product_name}}, {{site.base_gateway}} and {{site.kic_product_name}} configuration declaratively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: Manage {{site.konnect_product_name}}, {{site.base_gateway}}, and {{site.kic_product_name}} configuration declaratively
```

from development through deployment, ensuring consistency, reliability, 
and speed in API integrations.

decK operates on state files. decK state files describe the configuration of Kong API Gateway. 
State files encapsulate the complete configuration of Kong in a declarative format, 
including services, routes, plugins, consumers, and other entities that define how requests
are processed and routed through Kong.

{% if_version gte:1.35.x %}
Check out our [KongAir use case](/deck/latest/use-case/) to learn how decK can be used to
streamline API management processes for an (imaginary) airline.
{% endif_version %}

decK is compatible with {{site.ce_product_name}} >= 1.x and
{{site.ee_product_name}} >= 0.35.

{% if_version gte:1.35.x %}
## decK commands

The decK commands are structured into three main categories:

1. **Configuration Generation**: This category focuses on the initial creation of decK state files from industry-standard API specification formats. This category includes the following command: 
   - [deck file openapi2kong](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_openapi2kong/): Converts OpenAPI specification files into decK state files.

> 2. **Configuration Transformation**: This set of commands provides the tools needed to refine and restructure decK configuration files. It allows for the segmentation of a full configuration into smaller, manageable parts and their subsequent reassembly. This category includes commands such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Configuration Transformation**: This set of commands provides the tools needed to refine and restructure decK configuration files. It allows for the segmentation of a full configuration into smaller, manageable parts and their subsequent reassembly. This category includes the following commands:
```
"such as" implies that there are more

   - [deck file add-plugins](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_add-plugins/): Incorporates plugins into decK objects.
   - [deck file add-tags](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_add-tags/): Attaches tags to decK objects for enhanced organization.
   - [deck file list-tags](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_list-tags/): Enumerates tags associated with decK objects.
   - [deck file remove-tags](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_remove-tags/): Eliminates tags from decK objects.
   - [deck file lint](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_lint/): Assesses a decK file against a set of linting rules, identifying any discrepancies.
   - [deck file patch](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_patch/): Applies modifications to a decK file without overhauling the entire configuration.
   - [deck file merge](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_merge/): Combines several partial decK files into a comprehensive one.

>    - [deck file namespace](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_namespace) - Apply a namespace to routes in a decK file by prefixing the path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - [deck file namespace](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_namespace): Apply a namespace to routes in a decK file by prefixing the path.
```

   - [deck file render](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_render/): Fuses multiple complete decK files, rendering a singular, unified configuration.
   - [deck file validate](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_validate/): Conducts an offline validation of the state file, pinpointing potential issues.
   - [deck file kong2kic](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_kong2kic/): Converts decK state files into {{site.kic_product_name}} manifests.

3. **Gateway State Management**: This category encompasses commands that facilitate
the synchronization of the final decK file with the target platform, be it {{site.konnect_product_name}}, {{site.base_gateway}}, 

> or {{site.kic_product_name}}. Key commands include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or {{site.kic_product_name}}. This category includes:
```

   - [deck file add-plugins](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_add-plugins/): Incorporates plugins into decK objects.
   - [deck file add-tags](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_add-tags/): Attaches tags to decK objects for enhanced organization.
   - [deck file list-tags](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_list-tags/): Enumerates tags associated with decK objects.
   - [deck file remove-tags](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_remove-tags/): Eliminates tags from decK objects.
   - [deck file lint](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_lint/): Assesses a decK file against a set of linting rules, identifying any discrepancies.
   - [deck file patch](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_patch/): Applies modifications to a decK file without overhauling the entire configuration.
   - [deck file merge](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_merge/): Combines several partial decK files into a comprehensive one.

>    - [deck file render](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_render/): Fuses multiple complete decK files, rendering a singular, unified configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - [deck file namespace](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_namespace) - Apply a namespace to routes in a decK file by prefixing the path.
   - [deck file render](/deck/{{page.release}}/reference/deck_file_render/): Fuses multiple complete decK files, rendering a singular, unified configuration.
```
Command was added in 1.34
